pages/dev-tutorials/pointer-contracts.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
   For an overview of Pointer Contracts click [here](/dev-interoperability/pointer-contracts).
</Callout>

### Deploying Pointer Contracts

This section guides you through the process of deploying a Pointer Contract for various token standards using the seid CLI tool.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  For an in-depth understanding of Sei token standards, click [here](/dev-token-standards).
</Callout>

#### Prerequisites

The list of requirements for deploying a pointer is fairly short:

- Sei light client (CLI/daemon) installed on your machine. You can follow the [installation guide](./installing-seid.mdx) if needed.
- Address for the relevant contract (the "pointee")

When a pointer is registered for any given contract, the two are mapped and identifiable across both execution environments. This link is immutable and can only be changed by the original address that created it.

Before deploying a pointer, you should first check if a pointer for the token/contract you wish to deploy already exists by running the following query:

```bash
seid q evm pointer $TYPE $POINTEE --evm-rpc=https://evm-rpc.arctic-1.seinetwork.io/
```

**Arguments**

- `TYPE`: One of "ERC20", "ERC721", "NATIVE", "CW20", and "CW721". Note that type refers to the underlying token type, so a type of "ERC20" refers to a CosmWasm pointer pointing to an ERC-20 token.
- `POINTEE`: the underlying token denom literal in the case of "NATIVE" type, or the underlying token contract address for all other types

**Flags**

- `--evm-rpc`: The endpoint URL for the EVM RPC interface of the Sei blockchain. This URL is used by the `seid` command to interact with the Sei EVM.

## Deploying a Pointer Contract

To deploy a Pointer Contract that links to a CosmWasm contract, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer [pointer type] [cw-address] --gas-fee-cap=<cap> --gas-limit=<limit> --evm-rpc=<rpc>
```

#### Arguments

- `pointer type`: The type of pointer you want to create, either CW20, CW721, or NATIVE.
- `cw-address`: The address of the CosmWasm contract you want to create an EVM pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--gas-fee-cap`: The maximum amount of gas fees that can be charged for the transaction.
- `--gas-limit`: The maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--evm-rpc`: The endpoint URL for the EVM RPC interface of the Sei blockchain. This URL is used by the `seid` command to interact with the Sei EVM.

### Confirmation

After initially registering a pointer, it is advisable to confirm registration by using the following command:

```bash
seid query evm pointer [type] [pointee] [flags]
```

#### Arguments

- `pointer type`: The type of pointer you want to create, either CW20, CW721, or NATIVE.
- `cw-address`: The address of the CosmWasm contract you want to create an EVM pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--height int`: Use a specific height to query state at (this can error if the node is pruning state).

- `--node string`: `<host>:<port>` to Tendermint RPC interface for this chain

- `--output string`: Output format (text|json) (default "text").

<Callout type="info">
  For a quick-reference for flags/args and syntax, use the `--help` flag with any command. For example:

  ```bash
  seid tx evm --help
  ```

</Callout>

## CosmWasm >> ERC Pointer

### For ERC20 Tokens

To deploy a CW20 Pointer Contract that links to an ERC20 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-cw-pointer ERC20 $ERC20_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=arctic-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.arctic-1.seinetwork.io
```

#### Arguments

- `ERC20_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the ERC20 token you want to create a CW20 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `arctic-1` refers to the Sei devnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  To check out the source code, please visit our [GitHub page](https://github.com/sei-protocol).
</Callout>

### For ERC721 Tokens

To deploy a CW721 Pointer Contract that links to an ERC721 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-cw-pointer ERC721 $ERC721_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=arctic-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.arctic-1.seinetwork.io
```

#### Arguments

- `ERC721_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the ERC721 token you want to create a CW721 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `arctic-1` refers to the Sei devnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

## ERC >> CosmWasm Pointer

### For CW20 Tokens

To deploy an ERC20 Pointer Contract that links to a CW20 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer CW20 $CW20_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=arctic-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.arctic-1.seinetwork.io
```

#### Arguments

- `CW20_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the CW20 token you want to create an ERC20 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `arctic-1` refers to the Sei devnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

### For CW721 Tokens

To deploy an ERC721 Pointer Contract that links to a CW721 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer CW721 $CW721_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=arctic-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.arctic-1.seinetwork.io
```

#### Arguments

- `CW721_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the CW721 token you want to create an ERC721 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `arctic-1` refers to the Sei devnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

### For TokenFactory Tokens
Refer to the [Tokenfactory tutorial](./tokenfactory-tutorial.mdx) for details on how to create a tokenfactory denom and an associated pointer contract.

Commit message:

dev-pointers minor example command fixes + URL updates
Fix broken link to contracts dir in sei-chain repo
Replace all references to arctic-1 with mainnet
Remove `--evm-rpc` flag which does not exist

pages/dev-tutorials/pointer-contracts.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
   For an overview of Pointer Contracts click [here](/dev-interoperability/pointer-contracts).
</Callout>

### Deploying Pointer Contracts

This section guides you through the process of deploying a Pointer Contract for various token standards using the seid CLI tool.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  For an in-depth understanding of Sei token standards, click [here](/dev-token-standards).
</Callout>

#### Prerequisites

The list of requirements for deploying a pointer is fairly short:

- Sei light client (CLI/daemon) installed on your machine. You can follow the [installation guide](./installing-seid.mdx) if needed.
- Address for the relevant contract (the "pointee")

When a pointer is registered for any given contract, the two are mapped and identifiable across both execution environments. This link is immutable and can only be changed by the original address that created it.

Before deploying a pointer, you should first check if a pointer for the token/contract you wish to deploy already exists by running the following query:

```bash
seid query evm pointer [type] [pointee] [flags]
```

**Arguments**

- `TYPE`: One of "ERC20", "ERC721", "NATIVE", "CW20", and "CW721". Note that type refers to the underlying token type, so a type of "ERC20" refers to a CosmWasm pointer pointing to an ERC-20 token.
- `POINTEE`: the underlying token denom literal in the case of "NATIVE" type, or the underlying token contract address for all other types

**Flags**

- `--evm-rpc`: The endpoint URL for the EVM RPC interface of the Sei blockchain. This URL is used by the `seid` command to interact with the Sei EVM.

## Deploying a Pointer Contract

To deploy a Pointer Contract that links to a CosmWasm contract, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer [pointer type] [cw-address] --gas-fee-cap=<cap> --gas-limit=<limit> --evm-rpc=<rpc>
```

#### Arguments

- `pointer type`: The type of pointer you want to create, either CW20, CW721, or NATIVE.
- `cw-address`: The address of the CosmWasm contract you want to create an EVM pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--gas-fee-cap`: The maximum amount of gas fees that can be charged for the transaction.
- `--gas-limit`: The maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--evm-rpc`: The endpoint URL for the EVM RPC interface of the Sei blockchain. This URL is used by the `seid` command to interact with the Sei EVM.

### Confirmation

After initially registering a pointer, it is advisable to confirm registration by using the following command:

```bash
seid query evm pointer [type] [pointee] [flags]
```

#### Arguments

- `pointer type`: The type of pointer you want to create, either CW20, CW721, or NATIVE.
- `cw-address`: The address of the CosmWasm contract you want to create an EVM pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--height int`: Use a specific height to query state at (this can error if the node is pruning state).

- `--node string`: `<host>:<port>` to Tendermint RPC interface for this chain

- `--output string`: Output format (text|json) (default "text").

<Callout type="info">
  For a quick-reference for flags/args and syntax, use the `--help` flag with any command. For example:

  ```bash
  seid tx evm --help
  ```

</Callout>

## CosmWasm >> ERC Pointer

### For ERC20 Tokens

To deploy a CW20 Pointer Contract that links to an ERC20 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-cw-pointer ERC20 $ERC20_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=pacific-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=hhttps://rpc.sei-apis.com
```

#### Arguments

- `ERC20_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the ERC20 token you want to create a CW20 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `pacific-1` refers to Sei mainnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Source code for [pointer contracts](https://github.com/sei-protocol/sei-chain/tree/main/contracts/src) can be found under the `contracts` directory in the `sei-chain` repo.
</Callout>

### For ERC721 Tokens

To deploy a CW721 Pointer Contract that links to an ERC721 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-cw-pointer ERC721 $ERC721_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=pacific-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.sei-apis.com
```

#### Arguments

- `ERC721_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the ERC721 token you want to create a CW721 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `pacific-1` refers to Sei mainnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

## ERC >> CosmWasm Pointer

### For CW20 Tokens

To deploy an ERC20 Pointer Contract that links to a CW20 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer CW20 $CW20_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=pacific-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.sei-apis.com
```

#### Arguments

- `CW20_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the CW20 token you want to create an ERC20 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `pacific-1` refers to the Sei devnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

### For CW721 Tokens

To deploy an ERC721 Pointer Contract that links to a CW721 token, you can use the following command:

```bash
seid tx evm register-evm-pointer CW721 $CW721_TOKEN_ADDRESS --from=$SENDER --chain-id=pacific-1 --broadcast-mode=block --gas=200000 --fees=5000usei --node=https://rpc.sei-apis.com
```

#### Arguments

- `CW721_TOKEN_ADDRESS`: The contract address of the CW721 token you want to create an ERC721 pointer for.

#### Flags

- `--from`: Keyfile (by name) from which the tx is sent. This address must have enough balance to cover transaction fees.
- `--chain-id`: Identifies the specific chain of the Sei network you're interacting with. `pacific-1` refers to Sei mainnet.
- `--broadcast-mode`: Determines how the transaction is broadcasted. Setting this to `block` means the transaction will wait to be included in a block before returning a response.
- `--gas`: Specifies the maximum amount of gas that can be consumed by the transaction.
- `--fees`: Indicates the transaction fee.
- `--node`: Points to the specific Sei node RPC URL you're connecting to for transaction submission.

### For TokenFactory Tokens
Refer to the [Tokenfactory tutorial](./tokenfactory-tutorial.mdx) for details on how to create a tokenfactory denom and an associated pointer contract.
